Intern Match is a software system that is targeted toward Universities to help
match students with internships with personality traits as one of the main
ways to help find the best possible match for the company culture. Currently,
a system like this is needed within DePaul since our client has stated that
previous attempts to match a student with an internship have not always been
successful at matching the student with the company’s culture, thus creating
an uncomfortable working environment for all.

Companies and students are able to access the website to create detailed
personal profiles through their web browsers on any computer. Students and
companies will be required to take an Aptitude Quiz to determine what type of
personality and culture they would best fit in. Only the internship listings
that closely match the personality and culture of both parties will be shown
to the students. Those that do not match will not be shown, unless the student
or the company decides to retake the quiz and the personality or culture
changes, then the old results that do not match will not be shown and the
newly matched internships will be shown.

All the aptitude quiz results are stored in a database that will then be sent
to and processed by the QSRT algorithm, which will perform the personality
type analysis. The results of this QSRT are sent back to us to be stored in
the systems database for querying.

System administrators have access to the site from anywhere to ensure quick
and simple maintenance and support. Currently, there is no implementation to
automatically perform a background check of the companies that are able to
create profiles. Therefore, an administrator must manually deactivate a
company’s account when they create it on Intern Match if they are not a
legitimate company. Despite there not being an automatic procedure, this will
still ensure that the system will not contain any companies that would
compromise the security of the student’s data.

To further keep both the student’s and the company’s information confidential,
the Intern Match website software will only ask for personal information that
is required to complete the best matches possible. For example, a student ID
number, address (intern side only), social security number and work history is
not needed to sign up to the website, therefore ensuring that no critical
information is recorded. Other information that is required, such as names,
zip codes, skills and aptitude test results, are only shared with the
companies on a need-to-know basis. If extra personal information is required
by the company when a match has been found, students have the option to send
the rest themselves or through the school, which adds an extra layer of
confidentiality and peace-of-mind that this data is not stored within our
servers.
